we've just pulled into a full hookup RV
park after two weeks of dry camping time
to dump our black and gray tanks two
weeks is about how long it takes the two
of us to fill up the black tank we
stopped at a dump station about a week
ago and emptied the grey tank but now
after another week it's full too let's
start by hooking a garden hose up to our
sewage tank rinse outlet on the RV if
you don't have one of these in your RV
you can buy a one at a place like
camping world that you can put down the
toilet to flush the tank now let's turn
on the water to the tank rinse about
half way and pull the black valve this
all-important clear sewer elbow allows
us to see when the tank is clean now
turn our water all the way on allow the
water to run until it runs mostly clear
it should only take about three or four
minutes then close the black valve now
stand by for about three minutes while
the black tank fills through the sewer
rinse hose then pull the black valve
again
you can see that the first flush that
came through didn't clear out the tank
as soon as the water runs clear close
the black valve again now standby for
another three minutes allowing the tank
to fill partway again now pull the black
valve again
this time we can see that the water runs
clear almost immediately the trick to
getting the tank clean isn't just to use
the tank flush it's to close the black
valve for short periods allowing the
tank to fill partially to get a good
flushing action out of the tank of
course without the clear sewer elbow you
won't know when the water runs clear now
turn off the water to the black tanks as
soon as you see that all the water has
stopped draining out of the black tank
you can close the black valve now open
the grey valve which will flush out the
sewer hose since we're fully hooked up
at this campground we can leave the grey
valve open the black valve always stays
closed let's finish up by adding a
gallon of fresh water into the black
tank along with the recommended amount
of our favorite bacteriological tank
treatment there's nothing better than
full fresh and empty gray and black
tanks giving us the freedom to head off
in any direction we please